In recent years, electronic health records (EHRs) have been widely adapted at many healthcare facilities in an attempt to improve the quality of patient care and increase the productivity and efficiency of healthcare delivery. These EHRs can accurately diagnose diseases if utilized appropriately. While the EHRs can potentially resolve many of the existing problems associated with disease diagnosis, one of the main obstacles in effectively using them is the patient privacy and sensitivity of the medical information available in the EHR. Due to these concerns, even if the EHRs are available for storage and retrieval purposes, sharing of the patient records between different healthcare facilities has become a major concern and has hampered some of the effective advantages of using EHRs. Due to this lack of data sharing, most of the facilities aim at building clinical decision support systems using limited amount of patient data from their own EHR systems to provide important diagnosis related decisions. It becomes quite infeasible for a newly established healthcare facility to build a robust decision making system due to the lack of sufficient patient records. However, to make effective decisions from clinical data, it is indispensable to have large amounts of data to train the decision models. In this regard, there are conflicting objectives of preserving patient privacy and having sufficient data for modeling and decision making. To handle such disparate goals, we develop two adaptive distributed privacy-preserving algorithms based on a distributed ensemble strategy. The basic idea of our approach is to build an elegant model for each participating facility to accurately learn the data distribution, and then transfer the useful healthcare knowledge acquired on their data from these participators in the form of their own decision models without revealing and sharing the patient-level sensitive data, thus protecting patient privacy. We demonstrate that our approach can successfully build accurate and robust prediction models, under privacy constraints, using the healthcare data collected from different geographical locations. We demonstrate the performance of our method using the type-2 diabetes EHRs accumulated from multiple sources from all fifty states in the U.S. Our method was evaluated on diagnosing diabetes in the presence of insufficient number of patient records from certain regions without revealing the actual patient data from other regions. Using the proposed approach, we also discovered the important biomarkers, both universal and region-specific, and validated the selected biomarkers using the biomedical literature.