An acoustic height sensor could be used with the INSEY value to improve corn in-season N management.The height sensor was especially useful at earlier and later growth stages depending on the site.Normalizing height aided the relationships with active optical sensor INSEY when combining sites. Corn height measured manually has shown promising results in improving the relationship between active-optical (AO) sensor readings and crop yield. Manual measurement of corn height is not practical in US commercial corn production, so an alternative automatic method must be found in order to capture the benefit of including canopy height into in-season yield estimates and from there into in-season nitrogen (N) fertilizer applications. One existing alternative to measure canopy height is an acoustic height sensor. A commercial acoustic height sensor was utilized in these experiments at two corn growth stages (V6 and V12) along with AO sensors. Eight corn N rate sites in North Dakota, USA, were used to compare the acoustic height sensor as a practical alternative to manual height measurements as an additional parameter to increase the relationship between AO sensor readings and corn yield. Six N treatments, 0, 45, 90, 134, 179, and 224kgha-1, were applied before planting in a randomized complete block experimental design with four replications. Height measurement using the acoustic sensor provided an improved yield relationship compared to manual height at all locations. The level of improvement of the relationship between AO readings multiplied by acoustic sensor readings and yield was greater at V6 growth stage compared to the V12 growth stage. At V12, corn height measured manually and with the acoustic sensor multiplied by AO readings provided similar improvement to the relationship with yield compared to relating AO readings alone with yield at most locations. The acoustic height sensor may be useful in increasing the usefulness of AO sensor corn yield prediction algorithms for use in on-the-go in-season N application to corn particularly if the sensor height is normalized within site before combining multiple locations.