As the development and pervasiveness of information and communication technology continues to increase, individuals, organizations, and nations continually find new, unanticipated, and often unlawful ways to use it. Over the last decade in particular, actors throughout the international community have begun to engage in information operations (IO). Information operations involve the use of information technology, such as computer network attacks to influence, disrupt, corrupt, usurp, or defend information systems and the infrastructure they support. Because the technology is mostly inexpensive, widely available, and able to be deployed from virtually anywhere, cyber attacks are highly attractive to state and non-state actors. In response to recent attacks against Estonia, Georgia & Iran, states have developed their own domestic means to address these issues. But borderless nature of the attacks demonstrates that 1. national laws are limited in applicability and enforceability, and 2. existing international laws create uncertainty, complexity, and insufficiency. In such a unique environment, states lack a clear picture of how to translate and/or update existing rules for cyberspace. Overlapping (national, multi-lateral, global) legal regimes have the potential to overwhelm decision makers and law enforcement agencies. And current international humanitarian law fails to address the challenges of modern conflicts, often failing to consider many of the non-state actors actively involved in this space. Additionally, and arguably most important, it is unclear whether or not cyber attacks constitutes the use of force put forth in the UN Charter. Scholars and policymakers around the world explore this emerging landscape in efforts to adequately integrate developing laws into existing legal frameworks. These efforts demonstrate that there is no easy solution and suggests that there is much more that needs to be learned. This research project will explore the intersection of international humanitarian law and cyber attacks/warfare, attempting to understand 1. its implications for foreign relations (jurisdiction, state military action, diplomacy), and 2. the process by which international law is developed in response to these technological developments. This study examines the following questions: 1. What is the current and emerging law that governs information operations? a. Jus ad bellum - international law governing the resort to force by States as an instrument of their national policy i. UN Charter – Article 2(4) and Article 51 b. National laws i. United States ii. Russia iii. Iran 2. What actors/factors are involved in shaping this law? a. Who is the authority(s)? And how do these authorities work together? i. National governments ii. International Organizations iii. Private corporations who own the ICT infrastructure iv. NGOs or organizations involved in internet governance (ICANN) b. Who does this law govern? i. Nation states ii. Organizations and institutions iii. Individuals c. What other factors shape the development of the law? i. Technology ii. Events