Many scholars of the Cold War human sciences understand how both cybernetics and information theory regulate bodies and parts of a system. Yet, these scholars overlook the role of both in education. Moreover, many scholars of education understand how bodies and parts are regulated through standards and benchmarks, learning and instruction, technology and communication, assessment and feedback. Yet, they overlook how such features are steeped in cybernetic systems and information theory. This project seeks to bridge these gaps. Broadly conceived, this project situates American curriculum history within the broader history of the human sciences and how American curriculum models, and the post-WWII thrust of cybernetics and information theory, spread to regulate bodies internationally. Here’s how: the influential Basic Principles of Curriculum and Instruction (Tyler, 1949), known internationally as the Tyler Rationale, placed 1st, tied with John Dewey’s work as the pre-eminent texts in curriculum studies (Shane, 1981). The Rationale’s Four Steps are widely interpreted as linear and behaviorist. But the Rationale debuted amid the Josiah Macy Conferences (1946-1953), formally titled “Circular Causal and Feedback Mechanisms in Biological and Social Systems (Heims, 1991).” This “new” science of circular systems, renamed cybernetics, hinged on a “central concept [known as] a feedback mechanism (Eisenhart, 1949).” Overlooking the Rationale’s 4th step—evaluation, a feedback mechanism—overlooks how its cybernetic (circular) character rejects any behaviorist and linear stimulus-response (SR) model of the human sciences. What is more, Norbert Weiner’s bestseller Cybernetics or the Control and Communication in the Animal and the Machine (1948) thrust the new science of cybernetics into popular imagination. Cybernetic sciences use Shannon’s information theory (1948) to explain how a system, including a human system, attains a goal by communicating messages—information—coupled to a self-regulating feedback mechanism. In such systems, whether in the Rationale or the human sciences, regulating bodies comes through information. “The notion that people are channels through which information flows into storage or behavior is today a familiar part of most introductory courses in psychology (Miller, 1983).” In such social science systems, “people” are bodies, conduits that process bits of information—binary digits—within an environmental structure via cognitive behaviors and neurological feedback loops. And when the Rationale connects information to “people” (“students remember information only as isolated bits (73)”) it too treats curriculum as information within a larger educational system to regulate a nation of bodies. Indeed, regulatory power today is exercised this way. Cybernetics and information are parts of a “governing system (Rashevsky, 1950).” So, too, are the Rationale and other contemporary visions of curriculum, including the internationally famous Pedagogy of the Oppressed (Freire, 1970). And with the current interest in the cyborg, the post-human, and the increased role of the cognitive sciences in education, this project seeks to bring in conversation the fields of curriculum history, pedagogy and education, and the human sciences to understand just how communications and control have come to regulate bodies in contemporary national and international educational policies. Bibliography Eisenhart, C. “Cybernetics: A New Discipline.” Science (New York, N.Y.) 109, no. 2834 (April 22, 1949): 397–99. Freire, Paulo. Pedagogy of the Oppressed. New York: Bloomsbury Publishing USA, 1970. Heims, Steve J. The Cybernetics Group. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1991. Miller, George A. “Information Theory in Psychology,” in The Study of Information: Interdisciplinary Messages, edited by Fritz Machlup and Una Mansfield, 493–96. New York: Wiley, 1983. Rashevsky, Nicolas. “Review of Cybernetics or Control and Communication in the Animal and the Machine, by Norbert Weiner.” American Journal of Sociology 56, no. 2 (September 1, 1950): 199–200. Shannon, Claude E., and Warren Weaver. The Mathematical Theory of Communication. Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1948. Tyler, Ralph W. Basic Principles of Curriculum and Instruction. Chicago: University Of Chicago Press, 1949. Wiener, Norbert. Cybernetics, or the Control and Communication in the Animal and the Machine. New York: MIT Press, 1948.